---
layout: post
title: Doing things Daily
---

We all are - sometime or the other - victims to the thought that great achievements come from short spurts of hard work. Comparing with the scales of time, we are puny creatures who can see things in terms of hours and days, whereas the big picture is always made of months and years and even decades.

But even though we can try visualising in that larger scales, consistently reminding us of the sheer size of it can almost always result in failure. It is, thus, necessary to convert the plans of months and years to actions of days and hours.

This is where routines come in. Yes, the same routines we have all been taught to loathe as a force destructive to creativity and freedom from ages immemorial. That could be no farther from the truth. Along with the fact that small changes make a huge difference over a long period of time, routines become all-powerful in weathering the storm of long term plans.

Now, talking about routines, it is important to see that the routines are not so rigid that we get carried away from the bigger picture by the daily increments and that they are not too fluid that continuing to make small improvements become discouraging.

The ideal routines are the ones which we can squeeze into our daily schedule without much effort, and will be hard to avoid doing consecutively. It maybe something as small as reading a book for 10 minutes while you're on the way to office or playing the guitar just before you go to bed.

Thus, having a big picture helps but understanding you can draw only at one part of the picture at once helps infinitely more.

